 It's been claimed that Leonardo Da Vinci and the British toy company Meccano both
 did this. What was it? And what were their motives in each case? I'll say that again.
 It's been claimed that Leonardo Da Vinci and the British toy company Meccano both did
 this. What was it? And what were their motives in each case?
 Before we start, can I just say, I've recognised that given the expertise of my two team members,
 I really feel like if this were D&D, I'd be the Bard. So I'm just here. I'm just here
 for flavour. Everyone on the panel got that joke. That was wonderful.
 No, the Bard definitely has their uses. Do you want to mark yourself?
 I appreciate that, sure. No one can identify them, but they are there. And the Bard really
 believes in themselves. And I know that producer and script writer David is just taking notes
 now saying D&D intro for future episode. I feel like having been a Bard several times
 in various different contexts. I feel like, I mean, we can't all be Bards, right?
 I'm all Bard party. I think you've just invented the concept of a band. I love it. I'm into
 it. We all step off our stalls for the key change on the lutes. I don't know much about
 D&D. The Bard's like creative vibes. Yeah, kind of creative. They often bring
 a lute. I'm saying this as if I'm an expert. I'm very new to D&D. I could just, I'm simply
 trying to get the message across that like, oh my God, Katie and soap have got real hard
 skills. Whereas I kind of made a life for myself with soft skills, you know, getting
 high, trying to be charismatic. And these days, everyone does that as well as the hard
 skills they bothered learning. So I'm like, okay.
 Well, I feel like the hard skill demands for this question is if anyone has played with
 Makano, is that, is Makano the sticks and the cogs? Is that what that means?
 It's like the flat metal strips that are rounded at the corners with holes all the way down.
 It's like Lego that hurts. It's like Lego that's quite painful to play with.
 Better for fighting than regular Lego for my recollection as a child.
 Classic Bard. Classic Bard.
 Yeah, I hate Point Lego. Yeah, that's Makano.
 I mean, I feel like my experience of Makano and my vague knowledge of things that Leonardo
 da Vinci did should help me here, but I'm not getting anything really.
 I think Leonardo da Vinci, I'm thinking, I'm thinking circles. I'm thinking the guy in
 the circle, right? That's famous. I mean, I know it wasn't called that.
 The guy in the circle, as it is officially known, Vitruvian Man was, I think it was like
 an attempt to like create something that had the perfect proportions.
 And I know a couple of maths things about it. So like it has the golden ratio in it.
 I can imagine that the reason for including that is because it was kind of a cool fashionable
 thing at the time, I guess. Like the golden ratio sort of does turn up in a lot of places,
 but not as many as people say it does.
 I love the idea that something, I don't really know what the golden ratio is, but it's
 sounds timeless and yet not as cool as it was.
 I love the idea that something could be timeless and still faddy.
 Gold depreciating, yeah.
 Yeah, it's just everywhere if you talk to some people and then if you actually look,
 it isn't really that everywhere.
 Oh, I see.
 But it's nice, it's a pleasing thing, but I can't, I sort of wonder if there's something
 about Makano that uses it, but like they've got the different sizes of pieces.
 It's got little circles in it, so you can get Makano, you can put your axle through your
 plus two axle.
 Good for stabbing.
 You put that through a bit of Makano and it'll go round and you could use it like a compass.
 So definitely Makano is wheels and points and.
 On that basis is our answer, drawing circles.
 Could Leonardo, or that was Giotto, I think, could do a perfect circle freehand.
 So there's something like that.
 Now, my soft skills are just watching Tom's face to try and see to play War McCulder.
 Yeah.
 I'm thinking circles.
 No, I'm not thinking circles.
 Yeah, I'm doing a lot of that as well.
 Like the psychoanalysis of Tom's.
 You are all quite cold at the moment, unfortunately.
 It's not about Vitruvian man and that sort of mathematical perfection.
 So he built a helicopter, right?
 This is a thing about Da Vinci.
 Yeah, I thought wings.
 My first thought was wings.
 I don't know what context, but something related to wings.
 They both, and this is something they both tried to do.
 So what can have, thinking laterally for a moment, what can Leonardo and Makano in different
 eras have both tried to do?
 Would it be something for children or something?
 Could it be?
 It was a good Tom face.
 It raised an eyebrow.
 The question did say it's claimed that they both did this.
 This isn't really something you attempt.
 It's just claimed that they did this.
 Oh, I see.
 So, I mean, like if I, I'm going to say Da Vinci didn't actually build a functioning
 working helicopter because if he did, I'm sure we would know about that because helicopters
 would be existing a lot earlier than they actually did.
 And I almost wonder if, like, Makano attempted to put together a kit that was a functioning
 helicopter, but couldn't somehow.
 Yes.
 We don't know from the question who claimed it, whether Leonardo and Makano claimed it,
 or whether it was claimed by a mysterious third party.
 So it's been claimed that they both made flying machines that didn't work, potentially.
 Maybe that did work.
 Maybe it's claimed that they both did do it.
 Maybe there's no proof of Leonardo having built and flown in his helicopter, but it's
 claimed that he did.
 And maybe there is a claim that someone can create a flying machine out of Makano.
 I think the words to focus in on there are Sophie saying, didn't work.
 There's something about the things they're making.
 They both failed.
 Don't we all?
 Time travel?
 Makano time travel.
 So some of the other things that Da Vinci designed would be things like a tank and a catapult.
 Engines of war, weapons of war, instruments that didn't work.
 Did they, like, produce something that was meant to be used by the military, but then
 it didn't work?
 Da Vinci was quite famously a pacifist.
 Yeah.
 I was going to say, does it feel like a Da Vinci vibe, really?
 They both make weapons that purposefully didn't work.
 Oh, that's a good idea.
 Very close now.
 I'm enjoying the idea of Makano, too.
 Yeah, I was thinking about the Makano aspects.
 But I guess for kids, you want to give your kid, like, a weapon that won't actually damage
 anything.
 And if Da Vinci was also a pacifist, then it's like, oi, oi, here's a catapult.
 Did they both invent nerf in different eras?
 Because I remember Lego.
 They famously didn't do, originally Lego didn't make any brown or green pieces because
 they didn't want children to make weapons.
 They didn't want tanks and army.
 You couldn't make army Lego.
 So something like, I mean, so your weapons that weapons that don't work, weapons that
 deliberately don't work.
 What did Leonardo and Makano both actually produce?
 Plans.
 Diagrams.
 Yeah, like, instructions for making things.
 It's claimed that they both created instructions for a weapon and Leonardo decided not to
 use it, maybe destroyed his instructions for a weapon.
 Or they made instructions that didn't include all of the steps.
 Oh, that's so good!
 Yeah, okay.
 So they left because they wanted the person who was making it to have to come up with the
 final steps themselves or something.
 Is that the logic behind it?
 I'll take that.
 That's absolutely it.
 They had to earn a gun.
 So for Leonardo da Vinci, it may have been for copyright, so people couldn't just steal
 his designs unless you were enough of an engineering brain to notice the mistake.
 It could have been because he didn't want the military to use them.
 For Makano, it is claimed that they sometimes had deliberate errors to challenge the ingenuity
 of the kids who were doing it.
 So deliberate mistakes.
 Is the connection.
 Now, honestly, that's what I'd claim if my instructions had accidentally mistakes in them.
 I often write jokes that are deliberately unfunny.
 Check your audience, yeah.
 Are they worthy of the last word?
 Also, the little, like, dorky kid in me that, like, every time I saw a mistake on the board
 was like, that apostrophe is wrong.
 Lives for that.
 Like, going through the instructions and being like, where's the mistakes in here?
 Yes, pedant-proof diagrams.
 Yeah, nice.
 So yes, Leonardo da Vinci and Makano, it is said, both added deliberate errors to their designs.
 [music]
